Splash Buddha with water for good luck at this venerable temple
Walking through the covered arcades from Dotonbori to Namba Station, it's hard to imagine what the city looked like in centuries past. The discreetly hidden Hozenji Temple, however, manages to preserve a small slice of old Japan right in the middle of this otherwise chaotic shopping area.
Don't Miss
- Make a wish to the Mizukake-Fudo statue by the temple
- Explore Hozenji Yokocho (the alleyways surrounding the temple)
- Taste teppanyaki, okonomiyaki and other culinary treats
How to Get There
Hozenji Temple is a short walk from Dotonbori Bridge. From the bridge, walk into the covered shopping arcade heading toward Namba, turn left at the intersection bordered by the Bookoff bookstore and ABC Mart shoe store. Walk one block to arrive at Hozenji Temple.
A flourishing center for drama and entertainment in the 1600s
Built in 1637, Hozenji Temple pays homage to Fudo Myoo, one of five guardians of Buddhism. During the 1600s, Namba and the surrounding area of Dotonbori were blossoming as a center for entertainment, with dramatic performances of kabuki and bunraku taking place throughout the district. Even the temple catered to the performing arts, with traditional rakugo storytelling and stage plays performed on site.
Today, you can pay a visit to Hozenji Temple and enjoy traditional culture by glimpsing into Osaka's past at Hozenji Yokocho.
Wish for good luck
Hozenji Temple is best known for its statue of Fudo Myoo, lovingly known as Mizukake Fudo by the locals. As is tradition, find the statue of Fudo Myoo and splash it with water. This is said to bring you good luck. You'll notice the statue is covered head to toe in moss, the result of many thousands of visitors pouring water over it.
Grab a bite to eat on Hozenji Yokocho
After visiting the temple, wander the narrow alley of Hozenji Yokocho. Here, you'll encounter quaint shops and restaurants that recall the Osaka of several centuries ago. Taste teppanyaki and other local specialties. Try modanyaki, a spinoff of Osaka's famous savory pancakes known as okonomiyaki, at Yakizen.
An evening around Dotonbori
Hozenji Temple is centrally located and serves as a starting point to your Osaka adventures. Plan a day shopping in the nearby stores, or spend a night out visiting surrounding attractions such as the Dotonbori Bridge and Ura-Namba .
When to visit
Hozenji is best to visit early in the morning or in the evening. In particular, the temple comes alive in the early evening hours, when the calm glow from the traditional lanterns casts a warm shade of orange across the narrow alley and temple grounds. Hozenji Temple provides the perfect momentary escape from the loud city life.