Explore deep Osaka around Tsutenkaku Tower
Located in the center of an area that has continued to preserve the “good old days” ambience of Osaka with lots of colorful, retro signboards and billboards, Tsutenkaku Tower continues to be one of the treasured symbols of Osaka.
Don't Miss
- View Tsutenkaku Tower as you walk through the colorful signboard-decorated Tsutenkaku Hondori Merchants' Association
- TIP THE TSUTENKAKU, a see-through observation deck that seems to float in the air
- TSUTENKAKU Garden: Wind, Light, Water, Greenery, and Heart-themed garden on the 3rd floor roof
How to Get There
To get to Tsutenkaku Tower located in Shinsekai from Osaka Station, take the JR Loop Line to Shin-Imamiya Station. It's a 6-minute walk from there.
If traveling by the Midosuji Subway Line, get off at Dobutsuen-mae Station. It's a 6-minute walk from there.
If taking Sakaisuji Subway Line, get off at Ebisucho Station. It's a 3-minute walk from there.
Quick Facts
Tsutenkaku Tower was erected in 1912
Tsutenkaku Tower is 103 meters tall
Janjan Yokocho Alley in a 130 meters long street with around 50 stores and restaurants
Tsutenkaku Tower, a cultural symbol loved by locals and visitors
Tennoji Park and the amusement park were built on the site of the 1903 Osaka National Industrial Exhibition, leading to the development of this retro downtown “shitamachi” neighborhood, Shinsekai, with a nostalgic ambiance. After the original Tsutenkaku Tower built in 1912 was severely damaged in a fire, the present-day Tsutenkaku was erected in 1956.
On the fifth floor is an observatory deck where the panoramic view of Osaka can be enjoyed from indoors. The gold-colored statue of Billiken, a god which supposedly brings good luck if you stroke the soles of his feet—is also on this floor. One floor above, the roof top is called the Tembo Paradise, standing 94.5 meters above ground. Here, the all-encompassing scenery of Osaka can be viewed while feeling the wind on your face. Also highly recommended is the “TOWER SLIDER”—a short but exhilarating 10-second slide—going all the way down from the third floor to the basement.
Visit the photogenic Shinsekai
This area came to be known as Shinsekai (New World) in years following the opening of the original Tsutenkaku Tower and Japan's amusement park, Luna Park in 1912. It is distinguished by Janjan Yokocho Alley shopping street and large retro signboards. Indulge in the culinary delights of the famous Kushikatsu—deep fried bite-sized meat or vegetables and Dote-yaki— slow-simmered beef, stewed in miso and other seasonings.
Besides enjoying the vast selection of tasty restaurants and eateries, one can also slip back in time at the Kasuga Gorakujo, the retro game center in operation since around 1959, and the bygone era style Shinsekai Hihokan, Japan's biggest shooting gallery. Asahi Theater, popular for sitcoms and comedian performances, and Dorakutei known for comedy talk shows, are also located here.
The various sides of Osaka
Osaka Castle and the Osaka City Central Public Hall are also worth a visit as they showcase a completely different side of the city.
Osaka Castle is one of the famous and historic castles in Japan. The extensive forest area surrounding this imposing castle provides citizens and visitors a peaceful haven in the middle of the bustling city. Osaka Castle was damaged multiple times by fires caused by a siege, a lighting and air raids during World War II. Osaka's government began the final renovations in 1995 and the present magnificent castle was reconstructed two years later.
Osaka City Central Public Hall is located in Nakanoshima—the narrow island in the river running through the center of Osaka, housing several historical architectures retaining the Meiji and Taisho era (1868-1926) styles. Surrounded by an expansive rose garden and both the Tosabori and Dojima Rivers, this graceful building is used for a mix of cultural, artistic, and social activities and is one of the treasured attractions of Osaka.